# design_linear_infrastructure
This repository contains the data files for the submitted paper: Adaptive Intelligent Three-Dimensional Modeling Method for Hazard-Avoidance Routing in Linear Infrastructure.

The authors declare that the data supporting the findings of this study are available within thepaper. A range of environmental and geospatial variables were used, including topographic factors (elevation, slope, aspect, relief, curvature) derived from Copernicus DEM GLO-30 (European Space Agency 2024); vegetation indices (NDVI (Jixi 2024) and fractional vegetation cover(GAO Jixi 2024)), temperature (Peng et al. 2017; Peng et al. 2018; Peng et al. 2019; Ding and Peng 2020; Peng Shouzhang 2020a), precipitation (Peng et al. 2017; Peng et al. 2018; Peng et al. 2019; Ding and Peng 2020; Peng Shouzhang 2020b), evapotranspiration (Xia et al. 2005; ye et al. 2012; Ye Aizhong 2022), soil moisture (Shangguan et al. 2023; Shangguan Yulin 2023), and human activity data (Luo et al. 2018; Luo et al. 2020; Luo Lihui 2021, p. 1990–2017) obtained from the National Tibetan Plateau / Third Pole Environment Data Center (TPDC); seismic data from the China Earthquake Administration (2015) (China Earthquake Administration 2015); and soil texture (Liu et al. 2020; Liu et al. 2022; Zhang Ganlin 2022), fault line data (YE et al. 2017) and river from national geospatial databases (www.webmap.cn). Most variables were averaged over the period corresponding to the project's planning and construction phases (2008-2017). Freeze-thaw hazard risk (Zhang Guoming 2022) and soil erosion intensity (Zhang Wenbo 2019) were sourced from TPDC thematic datasets. Satellite imagery from Google Earth was used for visual reference. Lithology data are obtained from the International Soil Reference and Information Centre (ISRIC) dataset “ISRIC-WISE Harmonized Global Soil Profile Dataset (ver. 3.1). 
